=== PAGE 1 ===
Spell: Streaming Parsing of System Event Logs
Min Du, Feifei Li
School of Computing, University of Utah
mind@cs.utah.edu, lifeifei@cs.utah.edu
Abstract—System event logs have been frequently used as a
valuable resource in data-driven approaches to enhance system
health and stability. A typical procedure in system log analytics
is to ﬁrst parse unstructured logs, and then apply data analysis
on the resulting structured data. Previous work on parsing
system event logs focused on ofﬂine, batch processing of raw
log ﬁles. But increasingly, applications demand online monitoring
and processing. We propose an online streaming method Spell,
which utilizes a longest common subsequence based approach,
to parse system event logs. We show how to dynamically extract
log patterns from incoming logs and how to maintain a set of
discovered message types in streaming fashion. Evaluation results
on large real system logs demonstrate that even compared with
the ofﬂine alternatives, Spell shows its superiority in terms of
both efﬁciency and effectiveness.
I. I NTRODUCTION
The increasing complexity of modern computer systems has
become a signiﬁcant limiting factor in deploying and manag-
ing them. Being able to be alerted and mitigate the problem
right away has become a fundamental requirement in many
systems. As a result, automatically detecting anomalies upon
happening in an online fashion is an appealing solution. Data-
driven methods are heavily employed to understand complex
system behaviors, for example, exploring machine data for
automatic pattern discovery and anomaly detection [1]. System
logs, as a universal data source that contains important infor-
mation such as usage patterns, execution paths, and program
running status, are valuable assets in assisting these data-driven
system analytics, in order to gain insights that are useful to
enhance system health, stability, and usability.
The effectiveness of system log mining has been validated
by recent literature. Logs could be used to detect execution
anomalies [2], [3], [4], monitor network failures [5], or even
ﬁnd software bugs [6]. Researchers have also used system logs
to discover and diagnose performance problems [7]. Recently
to untangle the interleaved event logs from concurrent systems
has also become a hot topic of research [8].
To alleviate the pain of diving into massive unstructured
log data, in most prior work, the ﬁrst and foremost step is to
automatically parse the unstructured system logs to structured
data [2], [3], [4], [6]. There have been a substantial study on
how to achieve this, for example, using regular expressions
[8], leveraging the source code [6], or parsing purely based
on system log characteristics using data mining approaches
such as clustering and iterative partitioning [2], [9], [10], [11].
Nevertheless, except the approach that uses regular expressions
which requires domain-speciﬁc expert knowledge [8], hence,
does not work for general purpose system log parsing, or the
approach that leverages the source code [12] which is often
unavailable, none of the previous methods could achieve online
parsing in a streaming fashion. Some work claimed “online”
processing, but with the requirement of doing some extensive
ofﬂine processing ﬁrst, and only then matching log entries
with the data structures and patterns identiﬁed ﬁrst through
the ofﬂine, batched process [13].
There is also an increasing demand to properly manage and
store system logs [14]. A log management system typically has
a log shipper installed on each node to forward log entries to
a centralized server, which often contains a log parser, a log
indexer, a storage engine and a user interface. In such systems
the default log parser only parses simple schema information
such as timestamp and hostname. The log entry itself is treated
as an unstructured text value. An online structured approach
that could parse the event logs into structured data could make
the logs much easier to query, summarize and aggregate.
Log entries are produced by the “print” statements in a
system program’s source code. As such, we can view a log
entry as a collection of (“message type”, “parameter value”)
pairs. For example, a log printing statement printf(“File %d
ﬁnished. ”, id);contains a constant message type File ﬁnished
and a variable parameter value which is the ﬁle id. Hence,
the goal of a structured log parser is to identify the message
type File * ﬁnished , where * stands for the place holder for
variables (parameter values).
Contributions. In this paper, we propose Spell, a structured
Streaming Parser for E vent Logs using an L CS (longest com-
mon subsequence) based approach. Spell parses unstructured
log messages into structured message types and parameters in
an online streaming fashion. The time complexity to process
each log entry e is close to linear (to the size of e).
With streaming, real-time message type and parameter ex-
traction produced by Spell, not only it provides a concise,
intuitive summary for the end users, but the logs are also
represented by clean structured data to be processed and ana-
lyzed further using advanced data analytics methods by down-
stream analysts. Using two state-of-the-art ofﬂine methods to
automatically extract message types and parameters from raw
log ﬁles as the competing baseline, our study shows that even
compared with the ofﬂine methods, Spell still outperforms
them in terms of both efﬁciency and effectiveness.
The rest of this paper is organized as follows. Section
II provides the problem formulation and a literature survey.
Section III presents our streaming Spell algorithm and a
number of optimizations. Section IV evaluates our method

=== PAGE 2 ===
using large real system logs. Finally, section V concludes the
paper and section VI is our acknowledgement.
II. P RELIMINARY AND BACKGROUND
A. Problem formulation
System event logs are a universal resource that exists
practically in any system. We use system event logs to denote
the free-text audit trace generated by the system execution
(typically in the /var/log folder). A log message or a log
record/entry refers to one line in the log ﬁle, which is produced
by a log printing statement in the source code of a user or
kernel program running on or inside the system.
Our goal is to parse each log entry e into a collection of
message types (and the corresponding parameter values). Here
each message type in e has a one-to-one mapping with a log
printing statement in the source code producing the raw log
entry e. For example, a log printing statement:
printf("Temperature %s exceeds warning threshold\n", tmp);
may produce several log entries such as:
Temperature (41C) exceeds warning threshold
where the parameter value is 41C, and the message type is:
Temperature * exceeds warning threshold.
Formally, a structured log parser is deﬁned as follows:
Deﬁnition 1 (Structured Log Parser) Given an ordered set
of log entries (ordered by timestamps), log={e1,e 2,...,e L},
that containm distinct message types produced by m different
log printing statements from p different programs, where the
values ofm andp (and the printing statements and the program
source code) are unknown, a structured log parser is to parse
log and produce all message types from thosem statements.
A structured log parser is the ﬁrst and foremost step for most
automatic and smart log mining and data-driven log analytics
solutions, and also a useful and critical step for managing
logs in a log management system. Our objective is to design
a streaming structured log parser such that it makes only one
pass over the log and processes each log entry in an online,
streaming fashion continuously. Without loss of generality, we
assume that the size of each log entry is O(n) words.
B. Related work
Mining interesting patterns from raw system logs has been
an active research ﬁeld for over a decade. Two major efforts
in this area include generating features from raw logs to apply
various data analytics, e.g. [3], [4], [6], and building execution
models from system logs followed by comparing it with future
system executions, e.g. [2]. There are also efforts in identifying
dependencies from concurrent logs [3], [4], [8].
To achieve effective data-driven log analytics, the ﬁrst and
foremost process is to turn unstructured logs into structured
data. Xu et al. [6] used the schema from log printing statements
in the original programs’ source code to extract message types.
In [8], the raw logs are parsed using pre-deﬁned, domain-
speciﬁc regular expressions. There are efforts to make this pro-
cess more automatic and more accurate. Fu et al. [2] proposed
a method to ﬁrst cluster log entries using pairwise weighted
edit distance, and then perform recursively splitting. IPLoM
[9], [15] explored several heuristics to iteratively partition
system logs, such as log size and the bipartite relationship
between words in the same log message. LogTree [10] utilized
the format information of raw logs and applied a tree structure
to extract system events from raw logs. LogSig [11] generates
system events from textual log messages by searching the
most representative message signatures. HELO [13] extracts
constants and variables from message bodies, by ﬁrst using an
ofﬂine classiﬁcation step and then performing online clustering
based on the template set by the ﬁrst step. HLAer [16] is a
heterogeneous log analysis system which utilizes a hierarchical
clustering approach with pairwise log similarity measures
to assist log formatting. All previous structured log parsing
methods focus on ofﬂine batched processing or matching new
log entries with previously ofﬂine-extracted message types or
regular expressions (e.g., from source code).
There are also commercial and open source softwares on log
management and analysis. Splunk is a leading log management
system that offers a suite of solutions to ﬁnd useful information
from machine data. Elastic Stack offers a rich set of open-
sourced tools that could gather logs from distributed nodes,
and then index, store, for user to query/visualize. All these
tools provide interface to parse logs upon their arrival. How-
ever, their parsers are based on regular expressions deﬁned
by end users. The system itself can only parse very simple
and basic structured schema such as timestamp and hostname,
while log messages are treated as unstructured text values.
III. Spell: STREAMING STRUCTURED LOG PARSER
We now present Spell, a streaming structured log parser for
system event logs. Since a basic building block for Spell is a
longest common subsequence (LCS) algorithm, hence, Spell
stands for S treaming structured P arser for E vent L ogs using
LCS. In what follows, we ﬁrst review the LCS problem.
A. The LCS problem
Suppose Σ is a universe of alphabets (e.g., a-z, 0-9). Given
any sequence α ={a1,a 2,...,a m}, such that ai∈ Σ for 1≤
i≤m, a subsequence of α is deﬁned as {ax1,a x2,..., a xk},
where∀xi, xi∈ Z+, and 1≤x1 <x 2 <··· <x k≤m. Let
β ={b1,b 2,...,b n} be another sequence such that bj∈ Σ for
j∈ [1,n ]. A subsequence γ is called a common subsequence
ofα andβ iff it is a subsequence of each. The longest common
subsequence (LCS) problem for input sequences α andβ is to
ﬁnd longest such γ. For instance, sequence {1, 3, 5, 7, 9} and
sequence{1, 5, 7, 10} yields an LCS of {1, 5, 7}.
We observe that an LCS-based method can be developed
to efﬁciently and effectively extract message types from raw
system logs. This is a seemingly natural idea, yet has not been
explored by existing literature. Our key observation is that, if
we view the output by a log printing statement (which is a
log entry) as a sequence, in most log printing statements, the
constant that represents a message type often takes a majority
part of the sequence and the parameter values take only a
small portion. If two log entries are produced by the same
log printing statement stat, but only differ by having different
parameter values, the LCS of the two sequences is very likely
to be the constant in the code stat, implying a message type.

=== PAGE 3 ===
LCSObject
LCSseq: 
Command 
has 
completed 
successfully
lineIds: 
{2}
LCSMap
LCSObject
LCSseq: 
Temperature 
* 
exceeds 
warning 
threshold
lineIds: 
{0, 
1}
new 
log 
entry: 
no 
recent 
update
...
LCSMap
LCSObject
LCSseq: 
Temperature 
* 
exceeds 
warning 
threshold
lineIds: 
{0, 
1}
LCSMap
LCSObject
LCSseq: 
Temperature 
(41C) 
exceeds 
warning 
threshold
lineIds: 
{0}
LCSMap
new 
log 
entry: 
Command 
has 
completed 
successfully
new 
log 
entry: 
Temperature 
(43C) 
exceeds 
warning 
threshold
new 
log 
entry: 
Temperature 
(41C) 
exceeds 
warning 
threshold
Fig. 1. Basic workﬂow of Spell.
The merit of using the LCS formulation to parse system
event logs, as compared with the previously mentioned clus-
tering and iterative partitioning methods, is that the LCS
sequence of two log messages is naturally a message type,
which makes streaming log parsing possible.
B. Basic notations and data structure
In a log entry e, we call each word a token . A log entry e
could be parsed to a set of tokens using system deﬁned (or as
user input) delimiters according to the format of the log. In
general common delimiters such as space and equal sign are
sufﬁcient to cover most cases. After tokenization of a log, each
log entry is translated into a “token” sequence, which we will
use to compute the longest common subsequence, i.e., Σ =
{tokens from e1}∩{ tokens from e2}···∩{ tokens from eL}.
Each log entry is assigned a unique line id which is initialized
to 0 and auto-incremented for the arrival of a new log entry.
We create a data structure called LCSObject to hold cur-
rently parsed LCS sequences and the related metadata infor-
mation. We use LCSseq to denote a sequence that’s the LCS
of multiple log messages, which, in our setting, is a candidate
for the message type of those log entries. That said, each
LCSObject contains an LCSseq and a list of line indices called
lineIds that stores the line ids for the corresponding log entries
that lead to this LCSseq. Finally, we store all currently parsed
LCSObjects into a list called LCSMap. When a new log entry
ei arrives, we ﬁrst compare it with all LCSseq’s in existing
LCSObjects in LCSMap, then based on the results, either
insert the line id i to the lineIds of an existing LCSObject,
or compute a new LCSObject and insert it into LCSMap.
C. Basic workﬂow
Our algorithm runs in a streaming fashion, as shown in
Figure 1. Initially, the LCSMap list is empty. When a new log
entry ei arrives, it is ﬁrstly parsed into a token sequence si
using a set of delimiters. After that, we compare si with the
LCSseq’s from all LCSObjects in the current LCSMap, to see
if si “matches” one of the existing LCSseq’s (hence, line id
i is added to the lineIds of the corresponding LCSObject), or
we need to create a new LCSObject for LCSMap.
Get new LCS. Given a new log sequence s produced by the
tokenization of a new log entrye, we search through LCSMap.
For the ith LCSObject, suppose its LCSseq is qi, we compute
the value 𝓁i, which is the length of the LCS( qi, s). While
searching through the LCSMap, we keep the largest 𝓁i value
and the index to the corresponding LCSObject. In the end,
if 𝓁j = max(𝓁′
is) is greater than a threshold τ (by default,
τ =|s|/2, where|s| denotes the length of a sequence s, i.e.,
number of tokens in a log entry e), we consider the LCSseq
qj and the new log sequence s having the same message type.
The intuition is that the LCS of qj and s is the maximum
LCS among all LCSObjects in the LCSMap, and the length
of LCS(qj,s ) is at least half the length of s; hence, unless
the total length of parameter values in e is more than half
of its size, which is very unlikely in practice, the length of
LCS(qj,s ) is a good indicator whether the log entries in the
jth LCSObject (which share the LCSseq qj) share the same
message type with e or not (which would be LCS (qj,s )).
If there are multiple LCSObjects having the same max 𝓁
values, we choose the one with the smallest |qj| value, since
it has a higher set similarity value with s. Then we use
backtracking to generate a new LCS sequence to represent the
message type for all log entries in the jth LCSObject and e.
Note when using backtracking to get the new LCSseq ofqj and
s, we mark ‘*’ at the places where the two sequences disagree,
as the place holders for parameters, and consecutive adjacent
‘*’s are merged into one ‘ *’. For instance, consider the
following two sequences:s = Command Failed on: node-127 and
qj =Command Failed on: node-235 node-236 , LCSseq of the two
would be: Command Failed on: *. Once this is done, we update
the LCSseq of the jth LCSObject from qj to LCS(qj,s ), and
add e’s line id to the lineIds of the jth LCSObject.
If none of the existing qi’s shares an LCS with s that is
at least |s|/2 in length, we create a new LCSObject for e in
LCSMap, and set its LCSseq as s itself.
This completes the basic procedures in Spell, and most
standard logs could be successfully parsed using this method.
We further describe how to improve its efﬁciency.
D. Improvement on efﬁciency
In this section we show how to achieve nearly optimal time
complexity for most incoming log entries (i.e., linear to |s|,
the number of tokens of a log entry e). In our basic method,
when a new log entry arrives, we’ll need to compute the length
of its LCS with each existing message type. Suppose each log
entry is of size O(n) for some small constant n (i.e.,n =|s|),
it takes O(n2) time to compute LCS of a log entry and an
existing message type (using a standard dynamic programming
(DP) formulation). Let m′ be the number of currently parsed
message types in LCSMap. The method in section III-C leads
to a time complexity of O(m′·n2) for each new log entry.
Note that since the number of possible tokens in a complex
system could be large, we cannot apply techniques that com-
pute LCS or MLCS efﬁciently by assuming a limited set of
alphabets [17], [18], i.e., by assuming small |Σ| values.
A key observation is that, for a vast majority of new log
entries (over 99.9% in our evaluation), their message types

=== PAGE 4 ===
ROOT
A E
BCD
C D
F
?:    A  B  P  C
parameter
Prefix tree of Strs:
Fig. 2. Find the subsequence of σ using Preﬁx Tree.
are often already present in currently parsed message types
(stored by LCSMap). Hence instead of computing the LCS
between a new log entry and each exiting message type, we
adopt a pre-ﬁltering step to ﬁnd if its message type already
exists, which reduces to the following problem:
For a new string σ and a set of current strings
strs ={str1,str 2,...str m}, ﬁnd the longest stri such that
LCS(σ,str i) =stri, and return true if|stri|>= 1
2|σ|.
In our problem setting, each string is a set of tokens and
we simply view each token as a character.
1) Simple loop approach. A naive method is to simply loop
through strs. For each stri, maintain a pointer pi pointing to
the head of stri, and another pointer pt pointing to the head
ofσ. If the characters (or tokens in our case) pointed to by pi
and pt match, advance both pointers; otherwise only advance
pointerpt. When pt has gone to the end of σ, check if pi has
also reached the end of stri. A pruning can be applied which
is to skip stri if its length is less than 1
2|σ|. The worst time
complexity for this approach is O(m·n).
2) Preﬁx tree approach. To avoid going through the entire
strs set, we could index stris in strs using a preﬁx tree, and
prune away many candidates.
An example is shown in Figure 2 wherestrs ={ABC, ACD,
AD, EF}, and they are indexed by a preﬁx tree T . Instead of
checking σ against every stri in strs, we ﬁrst check tree T
and see if there is an existing stri that is a subsequence of
σ. If such a stri is identiﬁed, we check if |stri| > 1
2|σ|).
As shown in Figure 2, suppose σ=ABPC. Then by comparing
each character of σ with each node of T , we could efﬁciently
prune most branches in T , and mark the characters in σ that
do not match any node in T as parameters. In this case, we
identify ABC as the message type forσ, and P as its parameter.
For most log entries, it is highly likely that their message
type already exists in tree T , so Spell will stop here, and the
time complexity is only O(n). This is optimal, since we have
to go through every token in a new log entry at least once.
However, this approach only guarantees to return a stri if
suchstri = LCS(σ,str i) exists. It does not guarantee that the
returnedstri is the longest one among allstris that satisfystri
= LCS(σ,str i). For example, if σ=DAPBC while strs={DA,
ABC}, the preﬁx tree returns DA instead of ABC.
In practice, we ﬁnd that although the preﬁx tree approach
does not guarantee to ﬁnd the longest message type, its
returned message type is almost identical to the results of
simple loop method. That’s because parameters in each log
record tend to appear near the end. In fact one of the state-of-
art ofﬂine methods [2] ﬁnds message types by using weighted
edit distance and assigns more weight to the token closer to
end as parameter position. In particular, the evaluation results
show that for the Los Almos HPC log with 433,490 log
records, for each new log entry, the message type returned
by the preﬁx tree approach (if found), is 100% equal to the
results returned by the simple loop method. But there also
exist cases where the returned message type by preﬁx tree is
less than 1
2 number of tokens ( 1
2|s|) for a new log entry e
while e’s message type already exists in LCSMap.
That said, the complete pre-ﬁltering step in Spell is, for each
new log entry e, ﬁrst ﬁnd its message type using preﬁx tree,
and if not found, apply the simple loop lookup. In evaluation
section we’ll show that Spell with pre-ﬁltering step produces
almost equally good results for all logs with much less cost.
For log entries (less than 0.1% in our evaluation) that
do not ﬁnd message types using the pre-ﬁltering step, we
compare the new log entry e with all existing message types
to see if a new message type could be generated. However,
instead of computing LCS between each message type q and
e, we ﬁrst compute their set similarity score using Jaccard
similarity. Only for those message types that have more than
half common elements (i.e., tokens) with e do we compute
their LCS. Then if their LCS length exceeds 1
2|s|, we adjust
that message type and preﬁx tree T accordingly. Otherwise
we simply add e to T and LCSMap as a new message type.
E. Time complexity analysis
Spell ensures that the size of LCSMap increases by one
only when a new message type is identiﬁed; otherwise, a new
log entry id is added to an existing LCSObject with an updated
message type. This guarantees that LCSMap size is at most
the number of total message types (which is m) that could
be produced by the corresponding source code, which is a
constant. In section III-D, we’ve shown that for the basic
Spell, the time complexity for each new log entry isO(m·n2),
since the naive DP method to compute LCS is O(n2) for
log entries of size O(n), whereas our backtracking method
is often cheaper and we only do it with a target message type
in LCSMap which has the longest LCS length with respect to
the new log entry if the length exceeds a threshold.
With the pre-ﬁltering step, for each log entry, we’ll ﬁrst
try to ﬁnd its message type in preﬁx tree, then apply simple
loop approach, and only for the small portion that are still
not located, the LCSMap needs to be compared against. For
L log records, suppose the number of log records that fail to
ﬁnd message types in pre-ﬁltering step is F , and the number
of log records that are returned in simple loop step is I. The
amortized cost for each log record is only O(n + (I+F )
L ·m·
n + F
L·m·n2), where m is the number of message types and
n is the log record length. In our evaluation, (I+F )
L < 0.01
and F
L < 0.001, thus the cost for each log record to ﬁnd its
message type in Spell is approximately only O(n) in practice.
F . Remarks
Parsing each log message to extract their message type,
though a vital step for many further data analysis, is not an
easy task. It should be noted that no automatic approach is
perfect for all possible logs. For example, even the approach
that extracts log schema from the source code [6] that produces
the corresponding log cannot achieve 100% accuracy.

=== PAGE 5 ===
IV. E VALUATION
In this section, we evaluate the efﬁciency and effectiveness
of Spell, by comparing it with two popular ofﬂine log parsing
algorithms, on 2 real log datasets with different formats. All
experiments were executed on a Linux machine with an 8-core
Intel(R) Core(TM) i7-3770 CPU @ 3.40GHz computer. We’ll
show that Spell not only is able to parse logs in an online
streaming fashion, but also has outperformed the competing
ofﬂine methods in terms of both efﬁciency and effectiveness.
The two ofﬂine algorithms to be compared are IPLoM [9],
[15] and a clustering-based log parser [2] which we refer
to as CLP. The idea of IPLoM is to partition the entire
log into multiple clusters, where each cluster represents a
set of log entries printed by the same print statement. The
partition is done using a simple 3-step heuristic: i) partition
by each log record length; ii) partition each cluster by the
token position having least distinct tokens; iii) partition by the
bipartite mapping between tokens in each cluster. It is so far
the most lightweight automatic log parsing algorithm. CLP,
on the other hand, is a frequently used algorithm by multiple
log mining efforts [2], [3], [4]. It also partitions the log into
clusters, while by ﬁrst clustering using weighted edit distance,
and then repeatedly partitioning until all clusters satisfy the
heuristic - each position either has the same token, or is a
parameter position.
TABLE I
PARAMETERS FOR ALL THREE ALGORITHMS
Spell Value
message type thresh-
old τ
0.5
CLP Value
edit distance weight ν 10
cluster threshold ς 5
private contents
threshold ϱ
4
IPLoM Value
ﬁle support threshold 0.01
partition support
threshold
0
lower bound 0.1
upper bound 0.9
cluster goodness
threshold
0.34
Table I shows the default values of key parameters used
for each algorithm. For parameters with recommended values
that were clearly stated in the original papers, such as all
parameters for IPLoM [9], we simply adopt those values.
For others that were not clearly speciﬁed, we tested the
corresponding method with different values until we got the
best result (for the same log data) as in the original paper.
We use the supercomputer logs that were commonly used
for evaluation by previous work [9], [13], [15], [16], shown
in table II (count is the total number of log entries).
TABLE II
LOG DATASETS
Log type Count Message type ground truth
Los Alamos HPC log 1 433,490 available online2
BlueGene/L log 1 4,747,963 available online3
A. Efﬁciency of Spell
Figure 3 shows the total runtime of different methods when
log size (the number of log records) grows bigger. Note that
we tested different alternatives of the Spell method:
1CFDR Data, https://www.usenix.org/cfdr-data
2Los Alamos National Lab HPC Log message types, https://web.cs.dal.ca/
∼makanju/iplom/hpc-clusters.txt
3BlueGene/L message types, https://web.cs.dal.ca/ ∼makanju/iplom/bgl-
clusters.txt
0.0 0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 4.0 4.5
log size ( ×105 , Los Almos)
10-1
100
101
102
103
104
105
runtime (seconds)
 5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50
log size ( ×105 , Blue Gene)
0.0
0.5
1.0
1.5
2.0
2.5
3.0runtime (seconds ×103 )
Spell (naive LCS)
Spell
CLP (fixed threshold)
CLP (auto threshold)
IPLoM
Fig. 3. Efﬁciency comparison of different methods.
TABLE III
AMORTIZED COST OF EACH MESSAGE TYPE LOOKUP STEP IN Spell
Los Alamos HPC log BlueGene/L log
preﬁx tree (ms) 0.006 0.011
simple loop (ms) 0.020 0.087
naive LCS (ms) 0.175 0.580
• Spell (naive LCS): compute the LCS using DP between
new log entry and every existing message type.
• Spell: Spell with the pre-ﬁltering step.
Figure 3 left shows the results on Los Almos HPC Log.
Note that runtime is measured by logarithm scale. To parse the
entire log with 433, 490 entries, Spell with naive LCS is about
75 seconds while it’s only 9 seconds with pre-ﬁltering. IPLoM
shows the best efﬁciency, whereas Spell (with pre-ﬁltering)
is only slightly slower (within seconds). The CLP method
has the worst efﬁciency (2-4 orders of magnitude slower than
IPLoM and Spell). We tested two variants of CLP: 1) CLP
(auto threshold): it automatically sets the cluster threshold ς
by k-means clustering. When log size is bigger than 100,000,
it’s already too slow to run to completion. 2) CLP (ﬁxed
threshold): it uses a ﬁxed threshold 5 calculated from smaller
log ﬁle, which signiﬁcantly improves the runtime. However
it’s still much slower than other methods. In later experiments
we only use CLP with ﬁxed threshold if applicable.
Figure 3 right shows the results on Blue Gene Log. The
runtime in this ﬁgure is measured in normal decimal scale.
We didn’t include CLP in this experiment: even CLP with
ﬁxed threshold is too slow to ﬁnish as the Blue Gene log
has nearly 5 million entries. Here the advantage of our pre-
ﬁltering step is clearly demonstrated. In particular, Spell with
pre-ﬁltering has outperformed IPLoM in terms of efﬁciency.
With preﬁx tree, when the log size grows much faster than the
number of message types, most log entries will ﬁnd a match
in preﬁx tree, and return immediately. Then for the majority
of the rest, the message types could be found using simple
loop approach. Only for a small amount of log records that
are not matched in pre-ﬁltering step, we will compare it with
each existing message type. Noticeably, the runtime of Spell
(naive LCS) increases exponentially. That’s because when log
size grows bigger, more message types also show up, and when
each new log entry comes, it may need to be compared with a
larger number of message types. This result clearly shows the
importance of the pre-ﬁltering step and how it has effectively
mitigated the efﬁciency issues in the basic Spell method.
The amortized cost for each log entry to ﬁnd its message
type using different lookup method in the pre-ﬁltering step is
shown in Table III (in milliseconds). Recall that for each log
entry, Spell ﬁrst tries to ﬁnd its message type in preﬁx tree,

=== PAGE 6 ===
TABLE IV
NUMBER (PERCENTAGE ) OF LOG ENTRIES RETURNED BY EACH STEP
Los Alamos HPC log BlueGene/L log
preﬁx tree 397,412 (91.68%) 4,457,719 (93.89%)
simple loop 35,691 (8.23%) 288,254 (6.07%)
naive LCS 387 (0.09%) 1,990 (0.042%)
then simple loop, and ﬁnally uses naive LCS if not found in
previous two steps. Table IV shows the number (percentage)
of log entries that are returned in each step, showing that
over 91% could be processed in preﬁx tree in O(n) time,
and over 99.9% in total could be processed by preﬁx tree and
simple loop combined. The expensive naive LCS computation
is only applied to less than 0.1% of log entries. Hence much
overhead is reduced by pre-ﬁltering step. We’ll show later that
it provides almost identical results with the costly naive LCS
method.
B. Effectiveness of Spell
In this section we evaluate the effectiveness of Spell. After
parsing, the log ﬁle is processed into multiple clusters, where
each cluster represents one message type with the associated
log records (as produced by the corresponding log parsing
method). A parsed message type is considered as correct if
all and only all log records printed by that message type (as
identiﬁed through the ground truth) are clustered together. We
run each method, compare the results with the ground truth
generated by matching each log entry with its true message
type from Table II, and calculate the accuracy, which indicates
the total number of log entries that are parsed to correct
message types over the number of total processed log records.
0.5 1.0 1.5 2.0 2.5 3.0 3.5 4.0 4.5
log size ( ×105 , Los Almos)
0.1
0.2
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9accuracy
5 10 15 20 25 30 35 40 45 50
log size ( ×105 , Blue Gene)
0.3
0.4
0.5
0.6
0.7
0.8
0.9accuracy
Spell CLP (fixed threshold) IPLoM
Fig. 4. Effectiveness comparison of different methods.
Figure 4 shows the comparison on supercomputer logs. With
more log entries, number of message types also increases; and
they don’t necessarily show up uniformly over time. Hence, the
effectiveness of a method does not necessarily show a steady
trend as log size grows. We can see that in both charts, Spell
achieves much better accuracy than other methods. IPLoM
accuracy is acceptable in Figure 4 left for Los Almos log, and
becomes terrible in Figure 4 right for Blue Gene log.
Note that the pre-ﬁltering step in Spell may miss an existing
message type t for a new log entry e if LCS (t,s ) ⁄= t
but LCS (t,s )| >|LCS(t′,s )| when there is another existing
message type t′ that satisﬁes t′=LCS(t′,s ), where s is the
token sequence of e. To evaluate such potential degrade to
the effectiveness due to the pre-ﬁltering step, we show a
comparison in Table V. The result shows that Spell with pre-
ﬁltering has achieved an accuracy nearly the same as that using
only naive LCS. This means the pre-ﬁltering step has almost
no downgrade effect on the parsing results though it greatly
reduces the parsing overhead.
TABLE V
COMPARISON OF Spell WITH AND WITHOUT PRE -FILTER
Spell Los Alamos HPC log BlueGene/L log
With pre-
ﬁltering
True message
types found
Accuracy True message
types found
Accuracy
False 55 0.822786 165 0.811798
True 55 0.822786 164 0.811791
V. C ONCLUSIONS
We present a streaming structured log parser, Spell, for
parsing large system event logs in streaming fashion. Spell
works perfectly for online system log mining and monitoring.
It is also a great addition to modern log management systems
to provide end-users concise, real-time understanding of the
system states. We propose pre-ﬁltering to improve Spell’s
efﬁciency. Experiments over real system logs have clearly
demonstrated that Spell has outperformed the state-of-the-art
ofﬂine methods in terms of both efﬁciency and effectiveness.
VI. A CKNOWLEDGMENT
Min Du and Feifei Li were supported in part by grants
NSF CNS-1314945 and NSF IIS-1251019. We wish to thank
all members of the TCloud project and the Flux group for
helpful discussion and valuable feedback.
REFERENCES
[1] M. Du and F. Li, “ATOM: Automated tracking, orchestration and
monitoring of resource usage in infrastructure as a service systems,”
in IEEE BigData, 2015.
[2] Q. Fu, J.-G. Lou, Y . Wang, and J. Li, “Execution anomaly detection in
distributed systems through unstructured log analysis,” in ICDM, 2009.
[3] J.-G. Lou, Q. Fu, S. Yang, Y . Xu, and J. Li, “Mining invariants from
console logs for system problem detection.” in USENIX ATC, 2010.
[4] J.-G. Lou, Q. Fu, S. Yang, J. Li, and B. Wu, “Mining program workﬂow
from interleaved traces,” in SIGKDD, 2010.
[5] K. Yamanishi and Y . Maruyama, “Dynamic syslog mining for network
failure monitoring,” in SIGKDD, 2005.
[6] W. Xu, L. Huang, A. Fox, D. Patterson, and M. I. Jordan, “Detecting
large-scale system problems by mining console logs,” in SOSP, 2009.
[7] K. Nagaraj, C. Killian, and J. Neville, “Structured comparative analysis
of systems logs to diagnose performance problems,” in NSDI, 2012.
[8] I. Beschastnikh, Y . Brun, M. D. Ernst, and A. Krishnamurthy, “Inferring
models of concurrent systems from logs of their behavior with csight,”
in ICSE, 2014.
[9] A. A. Makanju, A. N. Zincir-Heywood, and E. E. Milios, “Clustering
event logs using iterative partitioning,” in SIGKDD, 2009.
[10] L. Tang and T. Li, “LogTree: A framework for generating system events
from raw textual logs,” in ICDM, 2010.
[11] L. Tang, T. Li, and C.-S. Perng, “LogSig: Generating system events
from raw textual logs,” in CIKM, 2011.
[12] W. Xu, L. Huang, A. Fox, D. Patterson, and M. Jordan, “Online system
problem detection by mining patterns of console logs,” in ICDM, 2009.
[13] A. Gainaru, F. Cappello, S. Trausan-Matu, and B. Kramer, “Event log
mining tool for large scale hpc systems,” in Euro-Par, 2011.
[14] Z. Cao, S. Chen, F. Li, M. Wang, and X. S. Wang, “LogKV: Exploiting
key-value stores for event log processing,” in CIDR, 2013.
[15] A. Makanju, A. N. Zincir-Heywood, and E. E. Milios, “A lightweight
algorithm for message type extraction in system application logs,”
TKDE, 2012.
[16] H. C. Xia Ning, Geoff Jiang and K. Yoshihira, “HLAer: A system
for heterogeneous log analysis,” in SDM Workshop on Heterogeneous
Learning, 2014.
[17] Y . Li, H. Li, T. Duan, S. Wang, Z. Wang, and Y . Cheng, “A real linear
and parallel multiple longest common subsequences (mlcs) algorithm,”
in SIGKDD, 2016.
[18] Y . Li, Y . Wang, Z. Zhang, Y . Wang, D. Ma, and J. Huang., “A novel fast
and memory efﬁcient parallel mlcs algorithm for longer and large-scale
sequences alignments,” in ICDE, 2016.